Week 2

Software development is much more of a social activity than it is a
technical one. Now, my point isn't that it isn't technical at all, but
the way that people have refined software development processes into
the practices we see in today's industry certainly points to the fact
that if you place communication and collaboration first, you're bound
to improve when it comes to performance as an organization.

And it really makes sense why. If you feel comfortable at the
workplace and are constantly encouraged to bring your ideas to the
table, then that's a sure path to learning how to identify good ideas,
working on them and most importantly, building your intuition as a
professional. This last point is critical because it's the only way to
eventually get to become a master at your craft.

The issue often lies in how companies and teams can start to improve
their performance. It's kind of a part of human nature to resist
change. This, many times makes it quite difficult for people to let go
of their 'old ways' and make way for innovation but it's really all
about trying things in small steps. This way, there isn't a lot of
risk and you can still try out new ways to work without
inconveniencing others or bugging them too much. Small steps can
really pile up into a mountain of success, I guess.

Now, reality is a bit brutal and many times, work isn't going to be
all about cool things like improving or becoming more efficient. At
many companies you still have to play the game and see how you can
climb the 'ladder of success' and be in a position with enough power
to be able to at least try to bring on some change to the
organization. That's the way things are sometimes, but if you realize
that once you've climbed high enough to be able to really influence
others, then you can finally use power to bring on change (as opposed
to just bossing people around). It's in these scenarios where talking
to the right people is very valuable.

The technicality of software development is often the first thing
beginners like me try to latch onto. And It's really all about balance
between social and technical skills. Actually, a lot of tecnical
aspects at the beginning are quite simple. For example, trying to
choose the best language for a project is all about evaluating very
measurable aspects of a language and seeing if the outcomes of said
evaluations provide a good fit for the project's context. A big part
of this evaluation process is actually seeing if you're productive
enough with the language or not, and that aspect is best evaluated
when actually focusing on the opinions of people. This is another
great example on the social aspect of development.

It's funny because sometimes you just need to adopt the use of a
language because you have to. That's a great example of how agility
comes into play when picking up a new skill. You fail fast and hard,
but you learn tremendously in a short amount of time thanks to
those brutal failures. 

Even the quality of the sleep you're getting is a great way to improve
performance at work (and life in general, too). You just have to be
willing to try out and experiment with your sleep to be able to
improve it. Experimenting and playing around with stuff, accepting
failure in your experiments and constantly is the best way to
summarize the agile mindset.

To try and illustrate my experience so far with 'agility', I actually
went through a great learning experience this week. I had to learn
enough clojure to be able to solve a problem, I had to do some bash
scripting (find is a pretty cool command) and I'm currently trying to
learn how to write an essay properly. And I also feel like I've failed
all three of those (so that's great! A whole lot of learning has
happened). I also was able to see that taking breaks really does help
you clear your head. I often sit in front of the computer and struggle
with simple tasks (and I try to solve this by trying to focus, but it
rarely succeeds) but since i felt I had a bit more on my plate this
week, I gave 'having breaks' a go. I actually did find it helpful and
I was able to carry out my assignments pretty smoothly. I'll try to
make that 'taking a break' habit stick with me.

Adding a bit more to my experience with agility, I tried to watch this
week's videos in short bursts of 60 to 90 minutes followed by a ~30
minute break to see if it actually made watching videos less
difficult. To my surprise, it actually did help a bit. I felt like the
videos went by faster and I retained what the videos said a bit better
than last week.

The point of all this is that we need to constantly improve our social
skills, not just the technical ones. If we've got a solid social base,
it'll provide a great aid in collaboration and building strong teams.
