Week 4

Let's start off with Feynman. A great scientist that had an extraordinary
capability of explaining things in simple, elegant ways. Besides the fact that
he was very accomplished in the field of physics (he was even a nobel prize
winner), he was a man of diverse interests. One of his fields of interest during
his later years was that of computer science. He eventually said that if we were
to simulate a quantum system, we would need a quantum computer.

And years later, we arrived at quantum computing. Now, science faces new
challenges within this field and is slowly unveiling the impact that it'll
have. If we follow the (slightly more understandable) algebraic representation
of qubits, we can see that things like machine learning (which is a bunch of
linear algebra algorithms) becomes much more faster to compute. But it really
doesn't stop at machine learning. It's due to the fact that you can operate on
vectors instead of single-digit bits that you cans go so fast. Quantum computing
can have a great impact on the time complexity of known algorithms, but that's
really outside the scope of this little essay.

A weird question that stems from this quantum computing stuff could be: If
quantum mechanics is the basis for the rules of our universe, then can we
eventually siimulate a universe like ours using a quantum computer?. I
personally, don't know if the question makes sense but Stephen Wolfram seems to
like the idea of simulating small universes that derive from a set of small and
simple rules (although quantum mechanics are everything but simple). So, it
would be pretty nice to see if the scientists were right, and by simulating
seemingly random phenomena using quantum computers, maybe the world could start
to make sense.

But, going back to what people have accomplished using only classical computing,
you can really see how far a small set of simple rules can go. We are constantly
surrounded by a huge network that has us connected to everyone. Network
infrastructure, protocols and the applications that sit above them are the
living manifestation of how far distributed systems have gone. Even though vast
computing resources are dominated by large tech companies, the internet is by
nature, decentralized and distributed. And with these huge systems, there can be
many faults and failures. Even by trying to something to them, you can cause
something to go wrong.

This is where a lot of testing tools come into play. The fact that even a
developer could be the one responsible for a failure inside a product is a risk
that needs to be controlled somehow. It's not always going to be 100%
controlled, but you can still control it just enough such that to a customer or
user, everything seems just fine and dandy. Many times, this control is carried
out by a variety of different testing tools that developers have at their
disposal. Usually when integrating new changes to a large codebase, a lot of
challenges can arise, such as: spending less computing resources when testing;
finding the best way to run tests together; managing dependencies when testing
and so on. In order to make good, reliable software, you really need to spend a
lot of time in engineering good testing solutions. Still, if the team has
managed to pass all the tests they considered necessary and are ready to ship
out a new release or a new product, a real-life production environment is
something a lot less predictable where even more variables that can lead to
failure can be introduced.

And that's where another concept called 'chaos engineering' comes into
play. Another way to test massive systems and having results that seem closer to
reality can be obtained by experimenting directly on the production system
itself. By doing this, you can find out about things that might've remained
unknown. Or, simply continue to prove the resilience of the system. Obviously,
this type of testing isn't going to go well if your entire system consists of a
single, monolithic server and a backup but when it comes to massive, distributed
systems that have been engineered with fault tolerance in mind, this particular
method of testing is quite useful (Netflix explains it very well with their
microservice-based architecture). Something that chaos engineering also includes
in its testing scopes are issues that are inherent to distributed systems
themselves, such as network latency and bandwidth, topology changes, etc.

Testing is kind of like a pair of shoes. You're better off with the ones best
suited to your specific needs. And for that, you really need to sit down and
take a look at what you're doing.

And when you're trying to test very loosely coupled pieces of software that act
together, you should always consider what happens when large portions of the
system can fail.
