Week 7

React constantly stresses it's whole composability aspect from the very
beginning. To be honest, during the time we've been working on our project, we
never really pursued a design that was thinking about composability first. And
it really does show. Now that the codebase has grown significantly enough to
actually see the essence of our design, composability and reusability is, for
the most part, overlooked.

Now, that isn't really bad. We've realized this and now we try to refactor any
code that doesn't seem very composable. This has lead to some sprouts of clean,
reusable, composable code. I think that those sprouts are the visible milestone
that represents that we're finally pursuing clean code.

It's this realization that's slowly been propagating throughout our
codebase. our API was in the same sense, not very RESTful at first. Now, our
weekly tasks explicitly paint out some pretty RESTful principles in mind. This
is, in my opinion, our example of agile growth. We failed at first with our
designs and we ended up trying to mend those mistakes. It's a pretty cool way to
actually see the team's growth

So, I think that the whole point of this essay is growth when actually
developing a project. To be fair, we aren't going to be a significant amount of
time on the project. But even within a small time frame, the team was able to
pull through (in the growth sense) and we're now picking up some cool habits,
like actually taking in the tech's philosophy into mind when designing.

It's not actually all nice and pretty. A lot of our code is still in a pretty
messy state but each new line of code takes the previous mistakes into
consideration and I think that's what counts. This also paves way for an
important point to bring to the team: when to refactor? You can pretty much just
be guided by OCD and think that everything needs to be refactored because it
doesn't have the appropriate amount of line breaks or some other quirky
reason. But no, a big task for the team is to decide when it's appropriate to
refactor. Will it save us time in the future? Will it simplify the design? Will
refactoring take too long? And a load of other questions related to refactoring
need to be asked before the team decides to go and clean up some code. In our
case, we decided to refactor things that would actually save us time in future
development and we are currently seeing the fruits of that labor.

We've also been presented with the cruel reality of time. Most of our mistakes
will now persist inside the codebase due to the fact that going back and
cleaning everything up is just way too costly (it'll just take too long). Still,
that reality would've made itself apparent in the future so, it's better that we
saw it now rather than later. I mean, thinking about pretty code is nice, but
time and money are a foundation that simply cannot be ignored.

So, that's when perspective matters. A wise man once said that 'no mistakes,
just happy little accidents'. Those accidents make you conscious of your
weaknesses and it's those weaknesses that'll eventually sculpt the quality of
the developer. By sitting down and working on reducing your accidents, you're
increasing the quality of your work. In our case, it's those small fragments of
very readable and composable code that count. Those fragments are the seedlings
of great developing habits that will one day mold quality developers

Let's hope to never stop nurturing those seedlings.
