Week 6

This week we struggled a lot with our internal organization. Basically, we used
a kanban style board and tried to work with that. To our surprise, we barely
managed to get a few individual frontend components up and running (by
themselves, each on their own branch) and a half-baked backend with a few
issues.

To put it short, we failed to deliver the sprint goal. And it was pretty much
only due to human factors like our organization. Two learning experiences came
out from this: How to actually present an incomplete deliverable to a client and
how to really break down user stories into tasks.

For the first part, we realized that we actually did have some progress (like a
60% chunk) of what we needed to deliver. So, we just went ahead and said to the
client 'Here's what we actually managed to do'. We said this by first presenting
a chart that reflected our actual progress followed by recordings of several
standalone components.

So, yeah. We actually didn't even do that well when it came to presenting our
progress, but what we did managed to leave the client with an acceptable
impression. So, when it comes to saying 'we didn't manage to finish the job',
stressing what you achieved is key. But it still depends on the client if
they're ok with it or not.

When it came to our poor internal organization with the way we defined a task on
our kanban-style board, we followed advice and started defining our tasks in a
better way. We made the tasks less dependent, smaller, and much more explicit
(our tasks used to be entire user stories, so they were really huge). What did
this leave us with? smaller diffs on our commits (that means we were able to
actually able to perform better code reviews because we met less changes on each
pull request), more communication (we now constantly talk with each other about
technical questions, debating on what looks cleaner, and about the dependencies
we notice along the way).

So, tasks are better off when they're small.

When it comes to the technical aspect of things, this week was also filled with
a bunch of new things. First off, I learned a bit about how REST APIs are made
with java (specifically, spring). JPA makes the whole database mess a bit more
maintainable while spring actually manages to produce some really small,
readable code (yes, in java). So, that was really fun (also, spring is
completeley LOADED with features, like, that thing has everything built-in). So,
my introductory steps to APIs in java were really fun.

When it came to finally programming something for our frontend app, that was
something really different for me. We chose React for our frontend (I'd never
really used react before) and things were pretty confusing at first but
thankfully, the React tutorial and a lot of documentation for the packages we
chose are very straightforward.

So, what was this week's lesson? The organizational issues come first, the
technical ones come later. If the team isn't able to achieve a true,
uninterrupted workflow then the team should stop coding. It's that easy. Also,
communication is a huge factor when it comes to reaching that 'flow' state in
which work actually gets done. If people don't mention their blockers as soon as
they encounter them, if they don't mention what's wrong with the pull request as
soon as possible, etc. then the team will not move forward as optimally.

So, communicating on time is something that everyone should be aware of.

